                                HHS Public Access
                                Author manuscript
                                Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
Author Manuscript




                    Published in final edited form as:
                     Liver Res. 2019 March ; 3(1): 31–39. doi:10.1016/j.livres.2019.01.001.



                    Bile Acid Receptors and Gastrointestinal Functions
                    Alexander L. Ticho2, Pooja Malhotra1, Pradeep K. Dudeja1,3, Ravinder K. Gill1, Waddah A.
                    Alrefai1,3,*
                    1Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Department of Medicine, College of Medicine,

                    University of Illinois at Chicago
                    2Department of Physiology and Biophysics, College of Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago
Author Manuscript




                    3Jesse Brown VA Medical Center, Chicago, IL



                    Abstract
                         Bile acids modulate several gastrointestinal functions including electrolyte secretion and
                         absorption, gastric emptying, and small intestinal and colonic motility. High concentrations of bile
                         acids lead to diarrhea and are implicated in the development of esophageal, gastric and colonic
                         cancer. Alterations in bile acid homeostasis are also implicated in the pathophysiology of irritable
                         bowel syndrome (IBS) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Our understanding of the
                         mechanisms underlying these effects of bile acids on gut functions has been greatly enhanced by
                         the discovery of bile acid receptors, including the nuclear receptors: farnesoid X receptor (FXR),
                         vitamin D receptor (VDR), pregnane X receptor (PXR), and constitutive androstane receptor
                         (CAR); and the G protein-coupled receptors: Takeda G protein-coupled receptor (TGR5),
Author Manuscript




                         sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2), and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 (M3R)..
                         For example, various studies provided evidence demonstrating the anti-inflammatory effects FXR
                         and TGR5 activation in models of intestinal inflammation. In addition, TGR5 activation in enteric
                         neurons was recently shown to increase colonic motility, which may lead to bile acid-induced
                         diarrhea. Interestingly, TGR5 induces the secretion of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) from L-
                         cells to enhance insulin secretion and modulate glucose metabolism. Because of the importance of
                         these receptors, agonists of TGR5 and intestine-specific FXR agonists are currently being tested as
                         an option for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and primary bile acid diarrhea, respectively. This
                         review summarizes current knowledge of the functional roles of bile acid receptors in the
                         gastrointestinal tract.
Author Manuscript




                    1.    Introduction
                                      Bile acids are synthesized in the liver from cholesterol, secreted into the intestine, and are
                                      reabsorbed in the ileum. Reabsorbed bile acids circulate back to the liver and are resecreted
                                      to establish their enterohepatic circulation.1,2 In the intestine, the entry of bile acids into


                    *
                     To whom correspondence should be addressed: Waddah A. Alrefai, MD: Research Career Scientist, Jesse Brown VA Medical Center,
                    Professor of Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612; walrefai@uic.edu; Tel. (312)
                    569-7429; Fax. (312) 569-8114.
                    Authors’ contributions
                    ALT, RKG, and WAA drafted the manuscript. ALT, PM, PKD, RKG, and WAA edited the manuscript. ALT and WAA approved the
                    final version of the manuscript.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                    Page 2


                                         enterocytes of the distal ileum stimulates the expression and secretion of fibroblast growth
Author Manuscript




                                         factor FGF19 (FGF15 in rodents) that functions as a hormone affecting several biological
                                         processes in the liver, including the suppression of bile acid synthesis (Figure 1). Bile acids
                                         in the intestine emulsify dietary lipids and cholesterol to facilitate their absorption. However,
                                         extensive research during the last two decades has provided interesting evidence showing
                                         that bile acids exert multiple important physiological and pathophysiological roles beside
                                         their function as detergents. Since the gut is a large organ that represents the longer limb of
                                         the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids, the effects of bile acids on physiological functions
                                         of the gut have been extensively studied. The intestine is equipped with elaborate bile acid-
                                         sensing mechanisms that allow elegant coordination of different intestinal functions and
                                         control the crosstalk between the gut and other organs in the body. Seminal work by several
                                         investigators addressed the roles of bile acids as signaling molecules that trigger cellular
                                         signaling pathways by activating specific receptors to modulate biological processes. Bile
Author Manuscript




                                         acids have been shown to activate both nuclear receptors and plasma membrane associated
                                         receptors expressed in different cell types to elicit the physiological effects of bile acids. In
                                         light of the complex nature of the gastrointestinal tract and the intricate network of signaling
                                         induced by bile acids, the influence of bile acids on intestinal functions deserves special
                                         attention. Many recent advances have been made with respect to our understating of the
                                         effects of bile acids on gastrointestinal tract physiology. In this review, we will focus on
                                         summarizing the current knowledge about the roles of bile acid receptors in modulating gut
                                         functions (Table 1).


                        2.     Nuclear receptors
                                         One of the mechanisms by which bile acids regulate intestinal physiology is altering gene
                                         expression via binding to and activating nuclear receptors.3 These are a group of ligand-
Author Manuscript




                                         activated transcription factors that are involved in regulating a variety of biological
                                         processes. At least four nuclear receptors are known to be activated by bile acids: farnesoid
                                         X receptor (FXR, NR1H4), vitamin D receptor (VDR, NR1I1), pregnane X receptor (PXR,
                                         NR1I2), and constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NR1I3).3 We will summarize in the
                                         following section what is currently known about the roles of bile acid nuclear receptors in
                                         influencing gut functions and their relevance to the development of gastrointestinal diseases.

                        2.1.       Farnesoid X-Receptor (FXR).
                                         FXR was the first identified receptor for bile acids and its activation meditates the canonical
                                         pathways triggered by bile acids.4–8 FXR is expressed in different types of cells and tissues
                                         including the liver and small intestine and has been shown to play crucial roles in the
                                         maintenance of bile acid and cholesterol homeostasis as well as glucose and lipid
Author Manuscript




                                         metabolism.9 Bile acids are the endogenous ligands for FXR with different potency in the
                                         following order: chenodeoxycholic acid > deoxycholic acid > lithocholic acid > cholic acid
                                         (CDCA > DCA > LCA > CA).9 There are two genes for FXR: FXRα and FXRβ. The
                                         function of FXRβ is not fully understood in mice and it is considered to be a pseudo gene in
                                         humans. Thus, the name FXR in this review refers to FXRα. Intestinal FXR was shown to
                                         be crucial for controlling bile acid biosynthesis in the liver. Indeed, tissue-specific knock out
                                         in mice provided compelling evidence demonstrating that intestinal FXR, via the induction


                                                Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                            Page 3


                                   of FGF15/19, is more important than liver FXR in mediating the negative feedback of bile
Author Manuscript




                                   acids on their synthesis in the liver. Beside its importance in controlling hepatic bile acid
                                   synthesis, intestinal FXR is relevant to a number of important intestinal functions and is
                                   considered as a target for the treatment of a number of gastrointestinal disorders.9 We will
                                   discuss in the following sections the roles of FXR in modulating intestinal functions and its
                                   potential roles in the development of intestinal diseases.

                                   2.1.1. FXR and mucosal immune response.—Effects of bile acids on immune cells
                                   were known from the early studies of Calmus et al, which showed that incubation of
                                   monocytes with CDCA inhibited LPS-stimulated secretion of cytokines including TNFα.10
                                   Since CDCA is a potent activator of FXR, these findings suggested the involvement of FXR
                                   in the observed anti-inflammatory effects of bile acids. In this regard, FXR was found to be
                                   expressed in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) along with other nuclear
                                   receptors.11 These studies showed FXR mRNA and protein expression in CD4+ T cells,
Author Manuscript




                                   CD8+ T cells, and CD14 monocytes subpopulations, suggesting a modulatory role for this
                                   nuclear receptor in immune responses. Consistently, the synthetic FXR agonist INT-747
                                   (obeticholic acid) decreased TNFα secretion from activated human PBMCs and CD14+
                                   monocytes. Also, INT-747 was able to suppress the secretion of TNFα from mononuclear
                                   cells isolated from the lamina propria of IBD patients. It was observed that the FXR agonist
                                   not only inhibited the secretion of cytokines from active mononuclear immune cells but also
                                   decreased the expression of proinflammatory cytokines in differentiated intestinal epithelial
                                   cells.12 Activation of FXR was also shown to inhibit cellular signaling pathways known to
                                   be triggered during inflammation via interactions with AP-1 and STAT3 transcription
                                   factors. In addition, FXR inhibits the expression of genes that are known targets for the
                                   major modulators of immune responses, namely, NF-κB and AP-1 transcription factors.13–15
                                   Collectively, studies of FXR and the immune response provided strong evidence for the
Author Manuscript




                                   involvement of FXR in the regulation of innate and adaptive immunity, as well as inhibition
                                   of the pro-inflammatory response, suggesting its potential role in the pathophysiology of
                                   chronic inflammatory diseases of the intestine.

                                   2.1.2. FXR and intestinal inflammation.—Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD),
                                   which consist of Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (US), are chronic inflammatory
                                   conditions of the gut. While the development of intestinal inflammation is multifactorial,
                                   there is recent experimental evidence to suggest that increased levels of luminal bile acids
                                   may play a role in the progression of these disorders.16,17 FXR expression was shown to be
                                   reduced in patients with CD and in mouse models of colitis.18 Since FXR was shown to
                                   influence immune function, recent studies have focused on its involvement in IBD.
                                   Furthermore, the studies of Gadaleta et al showed that administration of INT-747 protected
Author Manuscript




                                   mice from dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-
                                   induced colitis.12 On the other hand, induction of inflammation by DSS and TNBS in FXR
                                   knockout mice resulted in more severe inflammation and increased levels of
                                   proinflammatory cytokines, which was accompanied by a greater loss in body weight as
                                   compared to wildtype mice.18 Also, administration of an FXR agonist failed to attenuate
                                   DSS- or TNBS-induced inflammation in FXR knockout mice.18 These findings strongly
                                   suggest that a decrease in FXR expression contributes to the development of intestinal


                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                            Page 4


                                   inflammation and indicate that exploitation of the anti-inflammatory effects of FXR should
Author Manuscript




                                   be considered for the treatment of IBD.

                                   2.1.3. FXR, gut bacteria, and intestinal permeability.—In addition to the role of
                                   bile acids in modulating immune response, it has become evident that blocking the secretion
                                   of bile and decreasing bile acid concentrations in the colonic lumen results in bacterial
                                   overgrowth and compromised epithelial barrier function, leading to enhanced bacterial
                                   translocation across colonic epithelia.19,20 Studies showed that administration of CDCA to
                                   rats with obstructive jaundice decreased bacterial overgrowth and translocation, providing
                                   supportive evidence for the protective roles of bile acids and suggesting the involvement of
                                   FXR in this process.19,21 The first evidence directly supporting the anti-bacterial effects for
                                   FXR was established by the studies of Inagaki et al.20 The authors showed that in mice
                                   subjected to bile duct ligation, administration of the FXR agonist GW4064 attenuated
                                   bacterial overgrowth and translocation. Further, they showed that FXR deficient mice
Author Manuscript




                                   exhibited enhanced bacterial overgrowth accompanied by increased translocation of bacteria
                                   to mesenteric lymph nodes. Activating FXR by GW4064 resulted in a significant increase in
                                   the expression of genes in epithelial cells that are known to have antibacterial effects,
                                   including angiogenin, carbonic anhydrase 12, inducible nitric oxide, and IL-18.19,20 Similar
                                   results were shown in recent studies using the INT-747, which further demonstrated that
                                   experimentally-induced obstructive jaundice in rats is associated with increased epithelial
                                   permeability along with elevated expression of claudin-2.22 The authors showed that
                                   obeticholic acid normalized intestinal permeability and increased the expression of tight
                                   junction proteins claudin-1 and occludin. The conclusion from these studies and many others
                                   has established pivotal roles of FXR in the protection against mucosal damage by inducing
                                   antibacterial effects and maintaining epithelial integrity.
Author Manuscript




                                   2.1.4. FXR and bile acid-induced diarrhea.—Increased levels of luminal bile acids
                                   in the colon induces chloride secretion and impairs fluid absorption, leading to bile acid-
                                   induced diarrhea (BAD).23 BAD often presents secondary to ileal resection or ileal disease
                                   such as CD.23 However, there is also a prevalent type of primary (idiopathic) BAD that is
                                   common in patients with functional bowel disorders. Recent studies suggested that primary
                                   BAD is associated with overproduction of bile acids from the liver due to a decrease in ileal
                                   FGF19/15 secretion and attenuated feedback inhibition.24 Since activation of intestinal FXR
                                   stimulates the secretion of FGF19, it is reasonable to propose that FXR agonists are useful
                                   for the treatment of bile acid diarrhea. Recent studies indeed have shown promising results
                                   demonstrating that treatment with obeticholic acid was well-tolerated in patients with BAD
                                   and caused a decrease in hepatic synthesis of bile acids along with improved symptoms of
                                   diarrhea.25 It should also be noted that the studies of Mroz et el showed that FXR agonists
Author Manuscript




                                   exhibited antisecretory effects by reducing the expression of the chloride channel CFTR
                                   (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) and inhibiting the activity of Na/K
                                   ATPase transporter on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells.26 Thus, the influence of
                                   FXR activation on epithelial transport processes may also contribute to the antidiarrheal
                                   effects of FXR agonists (Figure 1).




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                  Page 5


                                         2.1.5. FXR and colorectal cancer.—Multiple lines of evidence suggest a role for FXR
Author Manuscript




                                         in the development of colorectal cancer. The studies of Bailey et al showed that FXR
                                         expression is decreased in precancerous lesions and is absent in the majority of samples
                                         from stages I to IV colonic adenocarcinoma patients.27 The authors showed that this
                                         silencing of FXR was the result of FXR promoter hypermethylation and KRAS signaling.
                                         The findings implicate FXR in the suppression of genes involved in the epithelial-to-
                                         mesenchymal transition and other oncogenic signaling pathways.27 Similar findings were
                                         also reported showing a decrease in FXR in colonic polyps and a remarkable reduction in its
                                         expression in colon adenocarcinoma.28 In other studies, the loss of FXR was associated with
                                         an increase in the number and the size of intestinal epithelial tumors in mice treated with
                                         azoxymethane (AOM).29 Also, the lack of FXR was shown to be associated with an
                                         increased tumor progression and early mortality in the ApcMin/+ and in chronic colitis mouse
                                         models.29 The authors demonstrated an activation of Wnt signaling by infiltrating
Author Manuscript




                                         neutrophils and elevation in the levels of TNFα secreted from macrophages when FXR was
                                         absent. Importantly, the administration of cholestyramine, a bile acid-binding resin, did not
                                         affect the promotion of tumorigenicity in FXR−/− mice, clearly demonstrating that the loss
                                         of FXR and not the increase in bile acids is responsible for the high susceptibility to
                                         tumorigenesis. These findings provided novel insights into the potential role of FXR as a
                                         target for the treatment of colon cancer.

                        2.2.       VDR, PXR, and CAR.
                                         In addition to FXR, it has also been shown that bile acids bind to the vitamin D receptor
                                         (VDR), the pregnane X receptor (PXR), and the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR). In
                                         contrast to FXR, bile acids are not the main ligands for these receptors. VDR is activated be
                                         Calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) and by the oncogenic secondary bile acid lithocolic
                                         acid (LCA), but not by other bile acids.30,31 The activation of VDR resulted in the induction
Author Manuscript




                                         of cytochrome CYP3A4 that is responsible for detoxifying LCA.30 Also, the activation of
                                         VDR resulted in a suppression of CYP7A1 expression in the liver, decreasing hepatic bile
                                         acid synthesis.32 Interestingly, IP injection of vitamin D3 resulted in induced expression of
                                         ileal FGF15 in mice, suggesting that FGF15 is also a target of VDR.33 Furthermore, VDR is
                                         also known to increase the expression of the ileal bile acid transporter ASBT.34 Collectively,
                                         activation of VDR may be involved in increasing bile acid absorption, suppressing hepatic
                                         bile acid synthesis, and promoting the expression of enzymes involved in the detoxification
                                         of LCA.

                                         PXR is primarily activated by xenobiotics as well as drugs such as rifampicin and is
                                         responsible for induction of phase I and phase II metabolism of many compounds including
                                         bile acids. LCA is the main bile acid ligand for PXR, and PXR activation induces the
Author Manuscript




                                         expression of detoxifying enzymes (including CYP3A family enzymes), as well as enzymes
                                         involved in sulphation and conjugation of bile acids.3,9 Indeed, activation of PXR has been
                                         suggested as a useful approach to attenuate the cytotoxic effects of bile acids during
                                         cholestasis.3,9 Furthermore, activating PXR in colonic cell line was shown to induce the
                                         expression of the FGF19, suggesting that PXR also contributes to the suppression of bile
                                         acid synthesis in the liver.35 CAR has also been shown to bind LCA and cooperate with
                                         PXR in stimulating the pathways involved in LCA detoxification in the liver.36


                                                Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                 Page 6


                        3.     G protein-coupled receptors
Author Manuscript




                                         Beside their roles as ligands for the nuclear receptors, a broad spectrum of bile acid effects
                                         throughout the body are now known to be mediated by direct activation of G protein-coupled
                                         receptors at the plasma membrane. Three major GPCRs are known to interact with bile acids
                                         to modulate gastrointestinal (GI) functions: the Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5 (TGR5;
                                         also known as the G protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1, GPBAR1),37 the M3R muscarinic
                                         receptor,38 and the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2).39 Although little is known
                                         about the roles of M3R and SIPR2 in modulating gastrointestinal functions, extensive work
                                         has demonstrated the importance of TGR5 in controlling a wide range of GI physiology.40
                                         We will focus in this section on reviewing the current knowledge regarding the roles of these
                                         receptors in modulating gut function, with a focus on TGR5.

                        3.1.       Takeda G-protein coupled receptor 5 (TGR5)
Author Manuscript




                                         A major breakthrough came with the discovery of a plasma membrane-associated G-protein
                                         coupled receptor mediating non-genomic effects of bile acids through Gαs.40 This receptor
                                         is widely referred to as the Takeda G-protein coupled receptor 5 (TGR5) and has been
                                         implicated in a wide range physiological functions in the body such as maintaining energy
                                         homeostasis and stimulating insulin secretion.40 Bile acids are the endogenous ligands for
                                         TGR5 and the potency of different types of bile acids are in the order of LCA > DCA >
                                         CDCA > CA.9 In the following sections, we will attempt to summarize the results of a large
                                         body of literature related to the involvement of TGR5 in modulating gastrointestinal
                                         functions.

                                         3.1.1. Role of TGR5 in modulating intestinal electrolyte transport and gut
                                         motility—Excessive bile acids in the lumen of the small intestine and colon has long been
Author Manuscript




                                         known to cause diarrhea.41–43 Earlier studies in humans showed that perfusion of the colon
                                         with bile acids stimulated water and electrolyte secretion and inhibited absorption.41,44 In
                                         particular, bile acid-dependent induction of chloride secretion across colonic epithelia was
                                         shown using different experimental models.45,46 One noteworthy aspect of this phenomenon
                                         is the sidedness of bile acid effects on chloride secretion. Interestingly, chloride secretion
                                         from colonic epithelial monolayers was shown to be significantly induced when cells were
                                         exposed to bile acids from the basolateral membrane, while higher concentrations of bile
                                         acids at the luminal membrane of colonic epithelial monolayers were needed to stimulate
                                         chloride secretion.47 The observed effect on chloride secretion from the luminal membrane
                                         has been attributed to compromised epithelial tight junctions that allow bile acids to reach
                                         the basolateral membrane, where they subsequently stimulate chloride secretion (Figure 1).
                                         47 The sidedness of bile acid effects on chloride secretion indicated a mechanism by which
Author Manuscript




                                         bile acids may activate a membrane receptor exclusively expressed on the basolateral
                                         membrane of epithelial cells. In this regard, the expression of TGR5 was recently shown in
                                         T84 cells and in epithelial cells of the rat colon.47,48 However, potent activators of TGR5
                                         including LCA and ciprofloxacin failed to induce chloride secretion in T84 cells.49 Also, the
                                         activation of TGR5 by the synthetic agonist INT-777 rather decreased basal secretion in rat
                                         colon and significantly attenuated Ca2+-dependent induced chloride secretion.48 These




                                                Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                             Page 7


                                   observations strongly indicated that TGR5 is not involved in bile acid induced chloride
Author Manuscript




                                   secretion.

                                   Bile acids are also well known to modulate intestinal and colonic motility, but until recently
                                   the underlying mechanisms were poorly understood. Bile acids inhibit gastric emptying and
                                   reduce small intestinal transit time but stimulate colonic peristalsis and increase colonic
                                   transit time.50,51 With respect to gastric emptying, TGR5 was found to be expressed in
                                   gastric smooth muscle, where its activation triggers a signaling via Epac and PKA-mediated
                                   pathway to inhibit RhoA and cause gastric muscle relaxation.52 besides gastric smooth
                                   muscle, TGR5 was also shown to be expressed in nitrergic inhibitory neurons of the
                                   myenteric plexuses in the small intestine, colon, and stomach, as well as in the cholinergic
                                   neurons of the submucosal plexuses in the small intestinal and colon.53 TGR5 expression
                                   was also detected in the intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPAN) that represent the sensory
                                   limb of the enteric neurogenic reflexes of the gut.53 Studies in transgenic mice provided
Author Manuscript




                                   important insights into the roles of TGR5 in modulating gut motility. In this regard, the lack
                                   of TGR5 in knockout mice resulted in a constipated phenotype with a decline in colonic
                                   transit time, a reduction in the frequency of defecation, and a decrease in water content in
                                   the stool.54 On the other hand, TGR5 overexpression in transgenic mice caused a faster
                                   colonic transit time as well as an increased frequency of defecation. Alemi et al further
                                   showed that the induction of colonic peristalsis by bile acids was inhibited by antagonists to
                                   5-hydroxytroptamine (5-HT) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), suggesting the
                                   involvement of 5-HT and CGRP in mediating the effects of TGR5 receptor on motility
                                   (Figure 1).54 It is interesting to note that TGR5 was recently shown to be expressed in
                                   enterochromaffin cells (ECs) of the colon but not in the small intestine, suggesting that bile
                                   acids may directly induce 5-HT secretion only in the colon.55 The secreted 5-HT from EC
                                   may also contribute to bile acid effects on motility.
Author Manuscript




                                   Overall, TGR5 appears to play a key role in coordinating the responses of different intestinal
                                   cell types to bile acids. For instance, activation of TGR5 on L-cells may be involved in
                                   mediating the ileal brake phenomenon, resulting in a decrease in small intestinal motility
                                   and slowing of gastric emptying. Also, TGR5 on ECs stimulates the secretion of 5-HT to
                                   enhance peristalsis in the colon. The presence of TGR5 in IPAN sensory neurons triggers the
                                   enteric reflex, promoting peristalsis mediated by CGRP. Peristalsis occurs by orchestrated
                                   contraction and relaxation of circular and longitudinal smooth muscles of the GI tract. The
                                   direct activation of TGR5 on inhibitory neurons leads to inhibition of longitudinal muscle
                                   contractility, consistent with the induction of peristalsis. It is intriguing to note that
                                   activation of TGR5 seems to mediate the laxative effects of bile acids mainly by altering gut
                                   motility patterns and not via induced secretion. Indeed, the activation of TGR5 on
Author Manuscript




                                   cholinergic secretomotor neurons in the submucosal plexuses was shown to inhibit basal as
                                   well as agonist-stimulated electrolyte secretion from the colonic epithelia.56

                                   With regard to diarrhea, it appears that the roles of bile acid receptors are complex and may
                                   be summarized as follows: diarrhea is multifactorial and may result from increased colonic
                                   motility, increased electrolyte secretion, decrease electrolyte absorption, or a combination of
                                   these factors.43 With respect to TGR5, the activation of this receptor on enteric neurons
                                   causes an increase in colonic motility. However, TGR5 on cholinergic neurons in


                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                Page 8


                                   submucosal plexuses inhibits electrolyte secretion. Also, TGR5 activation results in a
Author Manuscript




                                   decrease in agonist-induced chloride secretion in epithelial cells. The inhibition of secretion
                                   by TGR5 could be construed as compensatory to stimulated colonic motility. Therefore,
                                   TGR5 expressed on enteric neurons and ECs, but not the TGR5 expressed on epithelial cells,
                                   may explain bile acid-induced diarrhea. However, bile acids directly induce chloride
                                   secretion when added to the basolateral membrane of epithelial cell and the receptor(s)
                                   involved remain to be identified (Figure 1). Finally, it should be noted that the effects of
                                   TGR5 on electrolyte absorption have not been fully delineated. We have previously shown
                                   that that bile acids decrease chloride uptake in epithelial cells.44 However, the role of TGR5
                                   or other receptors in mediating bile acid-induced inhibition of chloride uptake has not been
                                   thoroughly investigated.

                                   Not only has TGR5 been shown to modulate gastrointestinal motility, it has also been
                                   demonstrated that alterations in TGR5 expression may also be involved in the
Author Manuscript




                                   pathophysiology of several disease states. In this regard, an increase in TGR5 expression in
                                   the gastric myenteric plexus was implicated in the pathogenesis of delayed gastric emptying
                                   in mice.57 These studies showed that depleting the bile acid pool using cholestyramine
                                   reversed the effects of high fat diet on TGR5 expression and gastric emptying. These data
                                   suggest that the high levels of serum bile associated with high fat diets may explain the
                                   increase in TGR5 expression. Along with studies in mice, recent investigations in humans
                                   showed that a functionally relevant SNP in the TGR5 gene (rs11554825) increases
                                   susceptibility to fast colonic transit time and increased levels of fecal bile acids in carriers of
                                   this allele.58 This evidence reinforces the essential role of TGR5 in gut motility and supports
                                   the notion that alterations in TGR5 expression may be involved in the development of
                                   disorders such as delayed gastric emptying and irritable bowel syndrome. It is clear from
                                   these studies that TGR5 is an attractive therapeutic target for the management of functional
Author Manuscript




                                   gastrointestinal and motility disorders.

                                   3.1.2. Emerging role of TGR5 in intestinal inflammation.—The expression of
                                   TGR5 has been established in immune cells including monocytes and macrophages.37,59 In
                                   macrophages activated by LPS, TRG5 agonists suppressed the production of TNFα through
                                   the mTOR pathway.60 These studies also showed that TGR5 deficiency in macrophages was
                                   associated with an increase in cytokine secretion and macrophage migration.60 Such
                                   findings represent strong evidence for the important role of TGR5 in chronic inflammatory
                                   conditions. Incubation of human peripheral blood monocytes with a specific TGR5 agonist
                                   (benzyl 2-keto-6-methyl-4-(2-thienyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyrimidine-5-carboxylate) but not
                                   an FXR agonist (fexaramine) induced differentiation into dendritic cells with an IL-12 hypo-
                                   producing phenotype.61 IL-12 produced by dendritic cells promotes the immune response
Author Manuscript




                                   mediated by type 1 helper T cells, contributing to the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory
                                   diseases such as IBD.

                                   In this regard, Cipriani et al showed TGR5 agonists (ciprofloxacin and oleanolic acid)
                                   mitigated intestinal inflammation induced by TNBS in mice.62 Consistent with the anti-
                                   inflammatory effects of TGR5 agonists, the authors showed that TGR5 knockout mice are
                                   more susceptible to TBNS-induced colitis. Similarly, TGR5 agonists were also shown to
                                   reduce the inflammatory index in the DSS model of induced colitis and other models of


                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                              Page 9


                                   intestinal and gastric epithelial injury, such as that induced by acetylsalicylic acid.63 It is
Author Manuscript




                                   also notable that the lack of TGR5 resulted in altered epithelial tight junctions associated
                                   with increased intestinal permeability, which may contribute to the increased susceptibility
                                   to experimentally-induced intestinal inflammation.62

                                   One important observation is that TGR5 expression was increased in the colon of mice with
                                   TNBS-induced colitis and in patients with Crohn’s disease.62 Furthermore, it was shown
                                   that the majority of CD14+ cells isolated from intestinal lamina propria of inflamed intestine
                                   in mice treated with TNBS and from patients with Crohn’s are also positive for TGR5. The
                                   fact that TGR5 exhibits anti-inflammatory effects and that its expression is decreased during
                                   the course of inflammatory disease highlights the potential for targeting TGR5 in the
                                   treatment of intestinal inflammation. Indeed, a recent study by Biagioli et al demonstrated
                                   that a putative small molecule activator of TGR5, BAR501, was able to significantly
                                   decrease the disease activity index in TNBS-induced colitis by about 70%.64 This decrease
Author Manuscript




                                   in the inflammatory response was associated with a shift in the macrophages of the lamina
                                   propria from the classically activated macrophages (CD11b+, CCR7+, F4/F80−) to
                                   alternatively activated phenotype (CD11b+, CCR7−, F4/F80+). The treatment with TGR5
                                   agonist resulted in a decrease in the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL1b, IL-6
                                   and CCL2), along with an increase in the levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL10 and
                                   TGFβ). Interestingly, TGR5-mediated shift in M1/M2 phenotype of intestinal macrophages
                                   was dependent on IL-10, as the anti-inflammatory effects of BAR501 were lost in IL-10
                                   knockout mice.64

                                   3.1.3. TGR5 and gut hormone secretion: beneficial role in metabolic
                                   disorders—The link between bile acids and GLP-1 secretion was initially established by
                                   Katsura et al, who demonstrated an increase in secretion of this incretin from the mouse
Author Manuscript




                                   STC-1 enteroendocrine cell line in response to incubation with bile acids (Figure 1).65 The
                                   increase was blocked by inhibitors of adenylate cyclase (MDL12330A),65 strongly
                                   suggesting the involvement of TGR5 receptor. These results were later confirmed using the
                                   specific TGR5 synthetic agonist INT-777 and were reproduced in various experimental
                                   models.40,66 Similar observations were also made in humans. Rectal administration of
                                   taurocholic acid in male human subjects showed an increase in both GLP-1 and PYY
                                   peptides.67 Indeed, activation of TGR5 receptor on L-cells also triggers the secretion of
                                   peptide YY (PYY) along with GLP-1 via a cAMP-dependent mechanism and the
                                   involvement of Epac/PLC-mu/Ca2+ pathway.68 These studies also showed that H2S, which
                                   may be generated by gut bacteria, blocks TGR5-mediated secretion of GLP-1 and PYY via
                                   the inhibition of PLCε/Ca2+ pathway.68 These findings have significant implications
                                   showing that bacterial products may influence the induction of GLP-1 secretion by bile
Author Manuscript




                                   acids.

                                   Because TGR5 activation induces the secretion of the incretin hormone GLP-1, it is
                                   reasonable to expect that TGR5 may be intimately involved in the control of glucose
                                   homeostasis. Indeed, the beneficial effects of TGR5 activation in the control of
                                   hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia has been shown in mouse models of diet-induced
                                   obesity as well as in human patients. These studies showed that treatment of obese mice with
                                   the bile acid sequestrant colesevelam reduced hepatic glucose production by blocking


                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                             Page 10


                                   hepatic glycogenolysis.69 Using both TGR5 knockout mice and GLP-1 antagonists, these
Author Manuscript




                                   studies further showed that the effects of colesevelam on hepatic glucose production were
                                   mediated by the TGR5-GLP-1 axis. Bile acid sequestrants such as colesevelam are resins
                                   that block bile acid absorption, retaining them in the intestinal and colonic lumen. The
                                   authors of this study posited that luminal colesevelam-bile acid complexes remain capable of
                                   activating TGR5. This hypothesis was proven using non-polarized HEK 293 cells as an in-
                                   vitro model. Also, injecting colesevelam-bile acid complexes via the rectum was able to
                                   stimulate GLP-1 secretion. However, the idea that bile acid-sequestrant complexes activate
                                   TGR5 was later challenged by at least two studies. In the first study, Brighton et al showed
                                   that adding bile acids to the basolateral side of the intestinal epithelia was more effective in
                                   inducing GLP-1 secretion from L-cells than the luminally added bile acids.70 They also
                                   showed that the luminal effects were abolished in the presence of an ASBT inhibitor. In the
                                   second study, GLP-1 secretion was assessed in metformin-treated patients after
Author Manuscript




                                   cholecystokinin (CCK) infusion to induce the release of bile acids. The results showed that
                                   the secretion of bile acids into the gut lumen by CCK-mediated gallbladder contraction
                                   caused an increase in GLP-1 secretion. Importantly, this effect was blocked by oral
                                   supplementation of bile acid sequestrant sevelamer.71 Furthermore, administration of CDCA
                                   to diabetic patients was able to increase GLP-1 level when given alone but not when it was
                                   given with colesevalam.72 Taken together, these findings strongly suggest that the luminal
                                   uptake of bile acids via ASBT is essential for the delivery of bile acids to the basolateral side
                                   of L-cells to activate TGR5 and secrete GLP-1 (Figure 1). However, this conclusion is in
                                   conflict with the earlier proposition of luminal bile acids activating TGR5-GLP1 even if they
                                   are complexed with sequestrants. The discrepancy between these findings requires further
                                   critical investigation.

                                   In relation to obesity, strong evidence suggests that alterations in bile acid homeostasis and
Author Manuscript




                                   TGR5-mediated increase in GLP-1 levels drive the beneficial effects of Roux-en-Y gastric
                                   bypass surgery on weight loss and improved insulin sensitivity, independent of restricted
                                   caloric intake.73,74 There is also convincing evidence for the role of TGR5 in the beneficial
                                   response to other types of bariatric surgeries such as vertical sleeve gastrectomy.75

                                   In light of these numerous studies, TGR5 receptor agonists (synthetic or naturally produced
                                   by gut bacteria) are now considered as therapeutics for the treatment of diabetes mellitus due
                                   to their ability to induce GLP-1 secretion.74,76 However, TGR5 agonists my cause systemic
                                   side effects such as increased gallbladder filling, as TGR5 is also expressed in the
                                   gallbladder.77 Thus, recent studies have focused on the development of poorly absorbed
                                   agonists to avoid systemic effects.77 Moreover, the combination of TGR5 agonists with
                                   inhibitors of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) potentiated the glucose lowering effects,
Author Manuscript




                                   galvanizing the research in this area for developing advanced and more effective
                                   interventions for the management of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients.77 For instance,
                                   recent studies by Pathan et al using the dual FXR and TGR5 agonist (INT-767) have
                                   unraveled novel pathways via which FXR increases TGR5 expression to enhance GLP-1
                                   secretion.78 The same group further showed the important role of altered gut microbial
                                   composition in mediating the effects of the intestine-specific FXR agonist (fexaramine) on
                                   TGR5 signaling. They demonstrated that antibiotic treatment blunted the effects of
                                   fexaramine on GLP-1 secretion, impairing the subsequent improvement in insulin sensitivity

                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                 Page 11


                                         and metabolic conditions.79 These studies highlight the increased efficacy of treating obesity
Author Manuscript




                                         and diabetes mellitus by simultaneously activating both FXR and TGR5.

                                         3.1.4. TGR5 and gastrointestinal cancer.—The link between TGR5 signaling and
                                         tumorigenesis was first shown in human gastric carcinoma AGS cells.80 These studies of
                                         Yasuda et al demonstrated an induction of EGFR phosphorylation in response to incubation
                                         with bile acids, an event that was blocked by siRNA-mediated attenuation of TGR5
                                         expression.80 Further, studies by Cao et al showed an increase in TGR5 in the majority of
                                         cases of gastric intestinal-type adenocarcinoma.81 Interestingly, the level of TGR5
                                         expression in these studies was also shown to negatively correlate with patient survival. The
                                         authors further showed that activation of TGR5 and coupling to Gαq and Gαi-3 proteins
                                         enhances the proliferation of gastric adenocarcinoma cells. Studies by Carino et al provided
                                         additional evidence for the increased expression of TGR5 in advanced stages of gastric
                                         cancer and showed that TGR5 activation increases the expression of markers for epithelial-
Author Manuscript




                                         mesenchymal transition (EMT) in gastric cancer cells.82 These studies suggest the pivotal
                                         role for TGR5 in the development of gastric cancer.

                                         The reflux of bile acids back into the stomach and esophagus is also implicated in the
                                         development of Barrett’s esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC).83 Strong
                                         evidence showed higher levels of TGR5 expression in human tissues of EAC as compared to
                                         normal esophageal mucosa and to mucosa from Barrett’s esophagus.84 It was shown that
                                         TGR5 expression was associated with worse survival in EAC patients.84 The activation of
                                         TGR5 receptor in EAC cells was linked to the increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase,
                                         NADPH oxidase NOX5-S, and the production of H2O2.83 The pathway was further
                                         delineated, and the evidence suggested that in EAC cells, bile acid-dependent activation of
                                         TGR5 caused DNA damage via NOX5-S and CREB transcription factor.85 Interestingly,
Author Manuscript




                                         there was an association between TGR5, VDR, and claudin-2 expression suggesting a
                                         potential mechanism that may contribute to the development of EAC.86 It is also interesting
                                         to note that increased expression of TGR5 in EAC patients was more prominent in males as
                                         compared to females, which may help to explain the increased incidence of EAC in males.84

                        3.2.       Muscarinic receptors.
                                         Earlier studies demonstrated the selective interactions and activation of muscarinic receptors
                                         by bile acids in gastric epithelial cells.87 Studies further showed that the activation of
                                         muscarinic receptor M3R in colonic epithelial cells caused a transactivation of EGFR and an
                                         increase in cell proliferation.88 Interestingly, mice lacking ASBT, in which the colonic levels
                                         of bile acids are significantly higher due to the malabsorption, exhibited a significant
                                         increase in the number and size of tumors when challenged with the carcinogen
Author Manuscript




                                         azoxymethane (AOM).89 These findings could be explained by the involvement of M3R
                                         muscarinic receptor in the induction of proliferation of intestinal epithelial cells and the
                                         promotion of tumor progression.

                        3.3.       Sphingosine-1-Phosphate receptors
                                         Sphinogosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2) was recently shown to be activated by bile
                                         acids. Several studies showed that conjugated bile acids stimulate ERK1/2 as well as AKT-


                                                Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                              Page 12


                                    dependent pathways in hepatocytes in a manner dependent on Gαi to induce the activity of
                                    nuclear sphingosine kinase 2 (Sphk2), leading to subsequent increase in nuclear S1P.90 Such
Author Manuscript




                                    an increase in S1P inhibits specific HDACs, resulting in altered gene expression. This novel
                                    bile acid-S1PR2-Sphk2 axis has been implicated in the modulation of processes involved in
                                    lipid metabolism. Mice deficient in S1PR2 were more susceptible to development of fatty
                                    liver when fed with a high fat diet.91 Also, activation of S1PR2 by bile acids regulates
                                    hepatic glucose metabolism in a manner similar to that of insulin.92 S1RP2 activation by bile
                                    acids was also implicated in the development of cholangiocarcinoma.93

                                    Although much of the research on bile acids and S1PR2 focus on the liver, a recent study
                                    showed that S1PR2 is expressed in intestinal epithelial cells and suggested that its activation
                                    by conjugated bile acids promotes cell proliferation.94 Nevertheless, the role of S1PR2 in
                                    intestinal physiology requires further investigation.
Author Manuscript




                        4.     Conclusion
                                    Bile acid effects on the gastrointestinal tract have shown regional differences between the
                                    different segments of the tract. The advances in our knowledge about the receptors
                                    mediating the effects of bile acids has provided clues that have helped to explain the
                                    differential effects of bile acids in the segments of the gut. For example, TGR5 mediates the
                                    effects of bile acids in the progression of tumors in the upper GI tract (gastric and
                                    esophageal), whereas the loss of FXR expression may be involved in the development of
                                    colorectal cancer. Also, activation of TGR5 on gastric smooth muscle results in delayed
                                    gastric emptying associated with feeding high fat diet, whereas activation of enteric TGR5 in
                                    myenteric pluses in the colon may explain the increase in colonic motility and diarrhea
                                    associated with increased levels of bile acids in the colon. Despite the extensive work that
Author Manuscript




                                    has been done, additional investigations are still needed to fully understand the complex
                                    network of events that underlie the many interactions between bile acids and the
                                    gastrointestinal system. The receptors involved in the induction of chloride secretion in
                                    intestinal epithelial cells and the mechanisms underlying their activation remains elusive.
                                    Also, the exact roles of bile acid receptors in shaping the composition of gut microbiota is in
                                    interesting area of investigation. Expanding our knowledge about the functional roles of bile
                                    acid receptors in the gut will enhance our understanding of gut related disorders and will
                                    unravel potential targets for improved therapeutic interventions to treat diseases such as IBD
                                    and gut functional disorders.


                        Acknowledgement:
                                    The work in the authors’ laboratories is supported by merit review grants from the Department of Veterans Affairs
Author Manuscript




                                    (VA): BX000152 (WAA) and BX002011 (PKD); F30 grant DK117535 (ALT); and R01 grants: DK109709 (WAA),
                                    DK54016 (PKD), DK81858 (PKD), DK92441(PKD), DK98170 (RKG), from NIDDK/NIH. WAA is supported by
                                    a VA Research Career Scientist Award. PKD is also supported by a VA Senior Research Career Scientist Award.


                        5.     References
                                    1. Alrefai WA, Gill RK. Bile acid transporters: structure, function, regulation and pathophysiological
                                       implications. Pharm Res 2007;24(10):1803–1823. doi:10.1007/s11095-007-9289-1. [PubMed:
                                       17404808]



                                            Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                    Page 13


                                   2. Chiang JYL. Bile acid metabolism and signaling. Compr Physiol 2013;3(3):1191–1212.
                                      doi:10.1002/cphy.c120023. [PubMed: 23897684]
Author Manuscript




                                   3. Li T, Chiang JYL. Nuclear receptors in bile acid metabolism. Drug Metab Rev 2013;45(1):145–155.
                                      doi:10.3109/03602532.2012.740048. [PubMed: 23330546]
                                   4. Forman BM, Goode E, Chen J, et al. Identification of a nuclear receptor that is activated by farnesol
                                      metabolites. Cell 1995;81(5):687–693. [PubMed: 7774010]
                                   5. Seol W, Choi HS, Moore DD. Isolation of proteins that interact specifically with the retinoid X
                                      receptor: two novel orphan receptors. Mol Endocrinol 1995;9(1):72–85. doi:10.1210/
                                      mend.9.1.7760852. [PubMed: 7760852]
                                   6. Makishima M, Okamoto AY, Repa JJ, et al. Identification of a nuclear receptor for bile acids.
                                      Science 1999;284(5418):1362–1365. doi:10.1126/science.284.5418.1362. [PubMed: 10334992]
                                   7. Parks DJ, Blanchard SG, Bledsoe RK, et al. Bile acids: natural ligands for an orphan nuclear
                                      receptor. Science 1999;284(5418):1365–1368. [PubMed: 10334993]
                                   8. Wang H, Chen J, Hollister K, Sowers LC, Forman BM. Endogenous bile acids are ligands for the
                                      nuclear receptor FXR/BAR. Molecular Cell 1999;3(5):543–553. [PubMed: 10360171]
                                   9. Schaap FG, Trauner M, Jansen PLM. Bile acid receptors as targets for drug development. Nat Rev
Author Manuscript




                                      Gastroenterol Hepatol 2014;11(1):55–67. doi:10.1038/nrgastro.2013.151. [PubMed: 23982684]
                                   10. Calmus Y, Guechot J, Podevin P, Bonnefis MT, Giboudeau J, Poupon R. Differential effects of
                                        chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acids on interleukin 1, interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis
                                        factor-alpha production by monocytes. Hepatology 1992;16(3):719–723. [PubMed: 1505915]
                                   11. Schote AB, Turner JD, Schiltz J, Muller CP. Nuclear receptors in human immune cells: expression
                                        and correlations. Mol Immunol. 2007;44(6):1436–1445. doi:10.1016/j.molimm.2006.04.021.
                                        [PubMed: 16837048]
                                   12. Gadaleta RM, van Erpecum KJ, Oldenburg B, et al. Farnesoid X receptor activation inhibits
                                        inflammation and preserves the intestinal barrier in inflammatory bowel disease. Gut
                                        2011;60(4):463–472. doi:10.1136/gut.2010.212159. [PubMed: 21242261]
                                   13. Wagner EF, Eferl R. Fos/AP-1 proteins in bone and the immune system. Immunol Rev
                                        2005;208(1):126–140. doi:10.1111/j.0105-2896.2005.00332.x. [PubMed: 16313345]
                                   14. Fiorucci S, Cipriani S, Mencarelli A, Renga B, Distrutti E, Baldelli F. Counter-regulatory role of
                                        bile acid activated receptors in immunity and inflammation. Curr Mol Med 2010;10(6):579–595.
Author Manuscript




                                        [PubMed: 20642438]
                                   15. Ding L, Yang L, Wang Z, Huang W. Bile acid nuclear receptor FXR and digestive system diseases.
                                        Acta Pharmaceutica Sinica B 2015;5(2):135–144. doi:10.1016/j.apsb.2015.01.004. [PubMed:
                                        26579439]
                                   16. Ananthakrishnan AN, Bernstein CN, Iliopoulos D, et al. Environmental triggers in IBD: a review
                                        of progress and evidence. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol 2018;15(1):39–49. doi:10.1038/
                                        nrgastro.2017.136. [PubMed: 29018271]
                                   17. Zhou X, Cao L, Jiang C, et al. PPARα-UGT axis activation represses intestinal FXR-FGF15
                                        feedback signalling and exacerbates experimental colitis. Nature Communications 2014;5(1):4573.
                                        doi:10.1038/ncomms5573.
                                   18. Vavassori P, Mencarelli A, Renga B, Distrutti E, Fiorucci S. The bile acid receptor FXR is a
                                        modulator of intestinal innate immunity. J Immunol 2009;183(10):6251–6261. doi:10.4049/
                                        jimmunol.0803978. [PubMed: 19864602]
                                   19. Ding L, Yang L, Wang Z, Huang W. Bile acid nuclear receptor FXR and digestive system diseases.
                                        Acta Pharmaceutica Sinica B 2015;5(2):135–144. doi:10.1016/j.apsb.2015.01.004. [PubMed:
Author Manuscript




                                        26579439]
                                   20. Inagaki T, Moschetta A, Lee Y-K, et al. Regulation of antibacterial defense in the small intestine by
                                        the nuclear bile acid receptor. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2006;103(10):3920–3925. doi:10.1073/
                                        pnas.0509592103. [PubMed: 16473946]
                                   21. Lorenzo-Zúñiga V, Bartolí R, Planas R, et al. Oral bile acids reduce bacterial overgrowth, bacterial
                                        translocation, and endotoxemia in cirrhotic rats. Hepatology 2003;37(3):551–557. doi:10.1053/
                                        jhep.2003.50116. [PubMed: 12601352]




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                  Page 14


                                   22. Verbeke L, Farre R, Verbinnen B, et al. The FXR agonist obeticholic acid prevents gut barrier
                                       dysfunction and bacterial translocation in cholestatic rats. Am J Pathol 2015;185(2):409–419.
Author Manuscript




                                       doi:10.1016/j.ajpath.2014.10.009. [PubMed: 25592258]
                                   23. Keely SJ, Walters JRF. The Farnesoid X Receptor: Good for BAD. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol
                                       2016;2(6):725–732. doi:10.1016/j.jcmgh.2016.08.004. [PubMed: 28174746]
                                   24. Walters JRF, Tasleem AM, Omer OS, Brydon WG, Dew T, le Roux CW. A new mechanism for
                                       bile acid diarrhea: defective feedback inhibition of bile acid biosynthesis. Clin Gastroenterol
                                       Hepatol 2009;7(11):1189–1194. doi:10.1016/j.cgh.2009.04.024. [PubMed: 19426836]
                                   25. Walters JRF, Johnston IM, Nolan JD, Vassie C, Pruzanski ME, Shapiro DA. The response of
                                       patients with bile acid diarrhoea to the farnesoid X receptor agonist obeticholic acid. Aliment
                                       Pharmacol Ther 2015;41(1):54–64. doi:10.1111/apt.12999. [PubMed: 25329562]
                                   26. Mroz MS, Keating N, Ward JB, et al. Farnesoid X receptor agonists attenuate colonic epithelial
                                       secretory function and prevent experimental diarrhoea in vivo. Gut 2014;63(5):808–817.
                                       doi:10.1136/gutjnl-2013-305088. [PubMed: 23916961]
                                   27. Bailey AM, Zhan L, Maru D, et al. FXR silencing in human colon cancer by DNA methylation and
                                       KRAS signaling. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 2014;306(1):G48–G58. doi:10.1152/
Author Manuscript




                                       ajpgi.00234.2013. [PubMed: 24177031]
                                   28. De Gottardi A, Touri F, Maurer CA, et al. The bile acid nuclear receptor FXR and the bile acid
                                       binding protein IBABP are differently expressed in colon cancer. Dig Dis Sci 2004;49(6):982–989.
                                       [PubMed: 15309887]
                                   29. Maran RRM, Thomas A, Roth M, et al. Farnesoid X receptor deficiency in mice leads to increased
                                       intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and tumor development. J Pharmacol Exp Ther
                                       2009;328(2):469–477. doi:10.1124/jpet.108.145409. [PubMed: 18981289]
                                   30. Makishima M, Lu TT, Xie W, et al. Vitamin D receptor as an intestinal bile acid sensor. Science
                                       2002;296(5571):1313–1316. doi:10.1126/science.1070477. [PubMed: 12016314]
                                   31. Adachi R, Shulman AI, Yamamoto K, et al. Structural determinants for vitamin D receptor
                                       response to endocrine and xenobiotic signals. Mol Endocrinol 2004;18(1):43–52. doi:10.1210/
                                       me.2003-0244. [PubMed: 14525957]
                                   32. Han S, Li T, Ellis E, Strom S, Chiang JYL. A novel bile acid-activated vitamin D receptor
                                       signaling in human hepatocytes. Mol Endocrinol 2010;24(6):1151–1164. doi:10.1210/
                                       me.2009-0482. [PubMed: 20371703]
Author Manuscript




                                   33. Schmidt DR, Holmstrom SR, Fon Tacer K, Bookout AL, Kliewer SA, Mangelsdorf DJ. Regulation
                                       of bile acid synthesis by fat-soluble vitamins A and D. Journal of Biological Chemistry
                                       2010;285(19):14486–14494. doi:10.1074/jbc.M110.116004. [PubMed: 20233723]
                                   34. Chen X, Chen F, Liu S, et al. Transactivation of rat apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter
                                       and increased bile acid transport by 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 via the vitamin D receptor.
                                       Mol Pharmacol 2006;69(6):1913–1923. doi:10.1124/mol.105.020792. [PubMed: 16481392]
                                   35. Wistuba W, Gnewuch C, Liebisch G, Schmitz G, Langmann T. Lithocholic acid induction of the
                                       FGF19 promoter in intestinal cells is mediated by PXR. World J Gastroenterol 2007;13(31):4230–
                                       4235. doi:10.3748/wjg.v13.i31.4230. [PubMed: 17696253]
                                   36. Wagner M, Halilbasic E, Marschall H-U, et al. CAR and PXR agonists stimulate hepatic bile acid
                                       and bilirubin detoxification and elimination pathways in mice. Hepatology 2005;42(2):420–430.
                                       doi:10.1002/hep.20784. [PubMed: 15986414]
                                   37. Kawamata Y, Fujii R, Hosoya M, et al. A G protein-coupled receptor responsive to bile acids. J
                                       Biol Chem 2003;278(11):9435–9440. doi:10.1074/jbc.M209706200. [PubMed: 12524422]
Author Manuscript




                                   38. Raufman J-P, Chen Y, Zimniak P, Cheng K. Deoxycholic acid conjugates are muscarinic
                                       cholinergic receptor antagonists. Pharmacology 2002;65(4):215–221. doi:10.1159/000064347.
                                       [PubMed: 12119452]
                                   39. Studer E, Zhou X, Zhao R, et al. Conjugated bile acids activate the sphingosine-1-phosphate
                                       receptor 2 in primary rodent hepatocytes. Hepatology 2012;55(1):267–276. doi:10.1002/
                                       hep.24681. [PubMed: 21932398]
                                   40. Duboc H, Taché Y, Hofmann AF. The bile acid TGR5 membrane receptor: from basic research to
                                       clinical application. Dig Liver Dis 2014;46(4):302–312. doi:10.1016/j.dld.2013.10.021. [PubMed:
                                       24411485]


                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                    Page 15


                                   41. Mekjian HS, Phillips SF, Hofmann AF. Colonic secretion of water and electrolytes induced by bile
                                       acids: perfusion studies in man. J Clin Invest 1971;50(8):1569–1577. doi:10.1172/JCI106644.
Author Manuscript




                                       [PubMed: 4938344]
                                   42. Camilleri M. Bile Acid Diarrhea: Prevalence, Pathogenesis, and Therapy. Gut Liver 2015;9(3).
                                       doi:10.5009/gnl14397.
                                   43. Camilleri M, Sellin JH, Barrett KE. Pathophysiology, Evaluation, and Management of Chronic
                                       Watery Diarrhea. Gastroenterology 2017;152(3):515–532.e2. doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2016.10.014.
                                       [PubMed: 27773805]
                                   44. Alrefai WA, Saksena S, Tyagi S, Gill RK, Ramaswamy K, Dudeja PK. Taurodeoxycholate
                                       modulates apical Cl−/OH− exchange activity in Caco2 cells. Dig Dis Sci 2007;52(5):1270–1278.
                                       doi:10.1007/s10620-006-9090-8. [PubMed: 17387613]
                                   45. Balistreri WF, Heubi JE, Suchy FJ. Bile acid metabolism: relationship of bile acid malabsorption
                                       and diarrhea. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 1983;2(1):105–121. [PubMed: 6350555]
                                   46. Bajor A, Gillberg P-G, Abrahamsson H. Bile acids: short and long term effects in the intestine.
                                       Scand J Gastroenterol 2010;45(6):645–664. doi:10.3109/00365521003702734. [PubMed:
                                       20334475]
Author Manuscript




                                   47. Ao M, Sarathy J, Domingue J, Alrefai WA, Rao MC. Chenodeoxycholic acid stimulates Cl(−)
                                       secretion via cAMP signaling and increases cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator
                                       phosphorylation in T84 cells. Am J Physiol, Cell Physiol 2013;305(4):C447–C456. doi:10.1152/
                                       ajpcell.00416.2012. [PubMed: 23761628]
                                   48. Ward JBJ, Mroz MS, Keely SJ. The bile acid receptor, TGR5, regulates basal and cholinergic-
                                       induced secretory responses in rat colon. Neurogastroenterol Motil 2013;25(8):708–711.
                                       doi:10.1111/nmo.12148. [PubMed: 23634890]
                                   49. Domingue JC, Ao M, Sarathy J, Rao MC. Chenodeoxycholic acid requires activation of EGFR,
                                       EPAC, and Ca2+ to stimulate CFTR-dependent Cl− secretion in human colonic T84 cells. Am J
                                       Physiol, Cell Physiol 2016;311(5):C777–C792. doi:10.1152/ajpcell.00168.2016. [PubMed:
                                       27558159]
                                   50. Armstrong DN, Krenz HK, Modlin IM, Ballantyne GH. Bile salt inhibition of motility in the
                                       isolated perfused rabbit terminal ileum. Gut 1993;34(4):483–488. [PubMed: 8491394]
                                   51. Shiff SJ, Soloway RD, Snape WJ. Mechanism of deoxycholic acid stimulation of the rabbit colon.
                                       J Clin Invest 1982;69(4):985–992. doi:10.1172/JCI110538. [PubMed: 7076855]
Author Manuscript




                                   52. Rajagopal S, Kumar DP, Mahavadi S, et al. Activation of G protein-coupled bile acid receptor,
                                       TGR5, induces smooth muscle relaxation via both Epac- and PKA-mediated inhibition of
                                       RhoA/Rho kinase pathway. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 2013;304(5):G527–G535.
                                       doi:10.1152/ajpgi.00388.2012. [PubMed: 23275618]
                                   53. Poole DP, Godfrey C, Cattaruzza F, et al. Expression and function of the bile acid receptor
                                       GpBAR1 (TGR5) in the murine enteric nervous system. Neurogastroenterol Motil
                                       2010;22(7):814–25–e227–8. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2982.2010.01487.x. [PubMed: 20236244]
                                   54. Alemi F, Poole DP, Chiu J, et al. The receptor TGR5 mediates the prokinetic actions of intestinal
                                       bile acids and is required for normal defecation in mice. Gastroenterology 2013;144(1):145–154.
                                       doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2012.09.055. [PubMed: 23041323]
                                   55. Lund ML, Egerod KL, Engelstoft MS, et al. Enterochromaffin 5-HT cells - A major target for
                                       GLP-1 and gut microbial metabolites. Mol Metab 2018;11:70–83. doi:10.1016/
                                       j.molmet.2018.03.004. [PubMed: 29576437]
                                   56. Duboc H, Tolstanova G, Yuan P-Q, et al. Reduction of epithelial secretion in male rat distal colonic
Author Manuscript




                                       mucosa by bile acid receptor TGR5 agonist, INT-777: role of submucosal neurons.
                                       Neurogastroenterol Motil 2016;28(11):1663–1676. doi:10.1111/nmo.12866. [PubMed: 27259385]
                                   57. Zhou H, Zhou S, Gao J, Zhang G, Lu Y, Owyang C. Upregulation of bile acid receptor TGR5 and
                                       nNOS in gastric myenteric plexus is responsible for delayed gastric emptying after chronic high-
                                       fat feeding in rats. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 2015;308(10):G863–G873.
                                       doi:10.1152/ajpgi.00380.2014. [PubMed: 25540233]
                                   58. Camilleri M, Vazquez-Roque MI, Carlson P, Burton D, Wong BS, Zinsmeister AR. Association of
                                       bile acid receptor TGR5 variation and transit in health and lower functional gastrointestinal




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                               Page 16


                                       disorders. Neurogastroenterol Motil 2011;23(11):995–9–e458. doi:10.1111/
                                       j.1365-2982.2011.01772.x. [PubMed: 21883702]
Author Manuscript




                                   59. Yoneno K, Hisamatsu T, Shimamura K, et al. TGR5 signalling inhibits the production of pro-
                                       inflammatory cytokines by in vitro differentiated inflammatory and intestinal macrophages in
                                       Crohn’s disease. Immunology 2013;139(1):19–29. doi:10.1111/imm.12045. [PubMed: 23566200]
                                   60. Perino A, Pols TWH, Nomura M, Stein S, Pellicciari R, Schoonjans K. TGR5 reduces macrophage
                                       migration through mTOR-induced C/EBPβ differential translation. J Clin Invest
                                       2014;124(12):5424–5436. doi:10.1172/JCI76289. [PubMed: 25365223]
                                   61. Ichikawa R, Takayama T, Yoneno K, et al. Bile acids induce monocyte differentiation toward
                                       interleukin-12 hypo-producing dendritic cells via a TGR5-dependent pathway. Immunology
                                       2012;136(2):153–162. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2567.2012.03554.x. [PubMed: 22236403]
                                   62. Cipriani S, Mencarelli A, Chini MG, et al. The bile acid receptor GPBAR-1 (TGR5) modulates
                                       integrity of intestinal barrier and immune response to experimental colitis. Ryffel B, ed. PLoS
                                       ONE 2011;6(10):e25637. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0025637. [PubMed: 22046243]
                                   63. Cipriani S, Mencarelli A, Bruno A, et al. Activation of the bile acid receptor GPBAR1 protects
                                       against gastrointestinal injury caused by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and aspirin in
Author Manuscript




                                       mice. Br J Pharmacol 2013;168(1):225–237. doi:10.1111/j.1476-5381.2012.02128.x. [PubMed:
                                       22881598]
                                   64. Biagioli M, Carino A, Cipriani S, et al. The Bile Acid Receptor GPBAR1 Regulates the M1/M2
                                       Phenotype of Intestinal Macrophages and Activation of GPBAR1 Rescues Mice from Murine
                                       Colitis. J Immunol 2017;199(2):718–733. doi:10.4049/jimmunol.1700183. [PubMed: 28607110]
                                   65. Katsuma S, Hirasawa A, Tsujimoto G. Bile acids promote glucagon-like peptide-1 secretion
                                       through TGR5 in a murine enteroendocrine cell line STC-1. Biochem Biophys Res Commun
                                       2005;329(1):386–390. doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.01.139. [PubMed: 15721318]
                                   66. Thomas C, Gioiello A, Noriega L, et al. TGR5-mediated bile acid sensing controls glucose
                                       homeostasis. Cell Metab 2009;10(3):167–177. doi:10.1016/j.cmet.2009.08.001. [PubMed:
                                       19723493]
                                   67. Wu T, Bound MJ, Standfield SD, et al. Effects of rectal administration of taurocholic acid on
                                       glucagon-like peptide-1 and peptide YY secretion in healthy humans. Diabetes Obes Metab
                                       2013;15(5):474–477. doi:10.1111/dom.12043. [PubMed: 23181598]
                                   68. Bala V, Rajagopal S, Kumar DP, et al. Release of GLP-1 and PYY in response to the activation of
Author Manuscript




                                       G protein-coupled bile acid receptor TGR5 is mediated by Epac/PLC-ε pathway and modulated by
                                       endogenous H2S. Front Physiol 2014;5:420. doi:10.3389/fphys.2014.00420. [PubMed: 25404917]
                                   69. Potthoff MJ, Potts A, He T, et al. Colesevelam suppresses hepatic glycogenolysis by TGR5-
                                       mediated induction of GLP-1 action in DIO mice. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol
                                       2013;304(4):G371–G380. doi:10.1152/ajpgi.00400.2012. [PubMed: 23257920]
                                   70. Brighton CA, Rievaj J, Kuhre RE, et al. Bile Acids Trigger GLP-1 Release Predominantly by
                                       Accessing Basolaterally Located G Protein-Coupled Bile Acid Receptors. Endocrinology
                                       2015;156(11):3961–3970. doi:10.1210/en.2015-1321. [PubMed: 26280129]
                                   71. Brønden A, Albér A, Rohde U, et al. The bile acid-sequestering resin sevelamer eliminates the
                                       acute GLP-1 stimulatory effect of endogenously released bile acids in patients with type 2
                                       diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2018;20(2):362–369. doi:10.1111/dom.13080. [PubMed:
                                       28786523]
                                   72. Hansen M, Scheltema MJ, Sonne DP, et al. Effect of chenodeoxycholic acid and the bile acid
                                       sequestrant colesevelam on glucagon-like peptide-1 secretion. Diabetes Obes Metab
Author Manuscript




                                       2016;18(6):571–580. doi:10.1111/dom.12648. [PubMed: 26888164]
                                   73. Zhai H, Li Z, Peng M, et al. Takeda G Protein-Coupled Receptor 5-Mechanistic Target of
                                       Rapamycin Complex 1 Signaling Contributes to the Increment of Glucagon-Like Peptide-1
                                       Production after Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass. EBioMedicine 2018;32:201–214. doi:10.1016/
                                       j.ebiom.2018.05.026. [PubMed: 29859856]
                                   74. Kaska L, Sledzinski T, Chomiczewska A, Dettlaff-Pokora A, Swierczynski J. Improved glucose
                                       metabolism following bariatric surgery is associated with increased circulating bile acid
                                       concentrations and remodeling of the gut microbiome. World J Gastroenterol 2016;22(39):8698–
                                       8719. doi:10.3748/wjg.v22.i39.8698. [PubMed: 27818587]



                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                  Page 17


                                   75. Ding L, Sousa KM, Jin L, et al. Vertical sleeve gastrectomy activates GPBAR-1/TGR5 to sustain
                                       weight loss, improve fatty liver, and remit insulin resistance in mice. Hepatology 2016;64(3):760–
Author Manuscript




                                       773. doi:10.1002/hep.28689. [PubMed: 27312543]
                                   76. Jafri L, Saleem S, Calderwood D, Gillespie A, Mirza B, Green BD. Naturally-occurring TGR5
                                       agonists modulating glucagon-like peptide-1 biosynthesis and secretion. Peptides 2016;78:51–58.
                                       doi:10.1016/j.peptides.2016.01.015. [PubMed: 26820940]
                                   77. Ma S-Y, Ning M-M, Zou Q-A, et al. OL3, a novel low-absorbed TGR5 agonist with reduced side
                                       effects, lowered blood glucose via dual actions on TGR5 activation and DPP-4 inhibition. Acta
                                       Pharmacol Sin 2016;37(10):1359–1369. doi:10.1038/aps.2016.27. [PubMed: 27264313]
                                   78. Pathak P, Liu H, Boehme S, et al. Farnesoid X receptor induces Takeda G-protein receptor 5 cross-
                                       talk to regulate bile acid synthesis and hepatic metabolism. Journal of Biological Chemistry
                                       2017;292(26):11055–11069. doi:10.1074/jbc.M117.784322. [PubMed: 28478385]
                                   79. Pathak P, Xie C, Nichols RG, et al. Intestine farnesoid X receptor agonist and the gut microbiota
                                       activate G-protein bile acid receptor-1 signaling to improve metabolism. Hepatology 2018;89:147.
                                       doi:10.1002/hep.29857.
                                   80. Yasuda H, Hirata S, Inoue K, Mashima H, Ohnishi H, Yoshiba M. Involvement of membrane-type
Author Manuscript




                                       bile acid receptor M-BAR/TGR5 in bile acid-induced activation of epidermal growth factor
                                       receptor and mitogen-activated protein kinases in gastric carcinoma cells. Biochem Biophys Res
                                       Commun 2007;354(1):154–159. doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.12.168. [PubMed: 17214962]
                                   81. Cao W, Tian W, Hong J, et al. Expression of bile acid receptor TGR5 in gastric adenocarcinoma.
                                       Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 2013;304(4):G322–G327. doi:10.1152/ajpgi.00263.2012.
                                       [PubMed: 23238937]
                                   82. Carino A, Graziosi L, D’Amore C, et al. The bile acid receptor GPBAR1 (TGR5) is expressed in
                                       human gastric cancers and promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition in gastric cancer cell lines.
                                       Oncotarget 2016;7(38):61021–61035. doi:10.18632/oncotarget.10477. [PubMed: 27409173]
                                   83. Hong J, Behar J, Wands J, et al. Role of a novel bile acid receptor TGR5 in the development of
                                       oesophageal adenocarcinoma. Gut 2010;59(2):170–180. doi:10.1136/gut.2009.188375. [PubMed:
                                       19926617]
                                   84. Pang C, LaLonde A, Godfrey TE, et al. Bile salt receptor TGR5 is highly expressed in esophageal
                                       adenocarcinoma and precancerous lesions with significantly worse overall survival and gender
                                       differences. Clin Exp Gastroenterol 2017;10:29–37. doi:10.2147/CEG.S117842. [PubMed:
Author Manuscript




                                       28223834]
                                   85. Li D, Cao W. Bile acid receptor TGR5, NADPH Oxidase NOX5-S and CREB Mediate Bile Acid-
                                       Induced DNA Damage In Barrett’s Esophageal Adenocarcinoma Cells. Sci Rep 2016;6(1):31538.
                                       doi:10.1038/srep31538. [PubMed: 27511066]
                                   86. Abu-Farsakh S, Wu T, LaLonde A, Sun J, Zhou Z. High expression of Claudin-2 in esophageal
                                       carcinoma and precancerous lesions is significantly associated with the bile salt receptors VDR
                                       and TGR5. BMC Gastroenterol 2017;17(1):33. doi:10.1186/s12876-017-0590-0. [PubMed:
                                       28212604]
                                   87. Raufman J-P, Cheng K, Zimniak P. Activation of muscarinic receptor signaling by bile acids:
                                       physiological and medical implications. Dig Dis Sci 2003;48(8):1431–1444. [PubMed: 12924634]
                                   88. Cheng K, Raufman J-P. Bile acid-induced proliferation of a human colon cancer cell line is
                                       mediated by transactivation of epidermal growth factor receptors. Biochemical Pharmacology
                                       2005;70(7):1035–1047. doi:10.1016/j.bcp.2005.07.023. [PubMed: 16139803]
                                   89. Raufman J-P, Dawson PA, Rao A, et al. Slc10a2-null mice uncover colon cancer-promoting actions
Author Manuscript




                                       of endogenous fecal bile acids. Carcinogenesis 2015;36(10):1193–1200. doi:10.1093/carcin/
                                       bgv107. [PubMed: 26210740]
                                   90. Nagahashi M, Takabe K, Liu R, et al. Conjugated bile acid-activated S1P receptor 2 is a key
                                       regulator of sphingosine kinase 2 and hepatic gene expression. Hepatology 2015;61(4):1216–1226.
                                       doi:10.1002/hep.27592. [PubMed: 25363242]
                                   91. Kwong E, Li Y, Hylemon PB, Zhou H. Bile acids and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 in
                                       hepatic lipid metabolism. Acta Pharmaceutica Sinica B 2015;5(2):151–157. doi:10.1016/
                                       j.apsb.2014.12.009. [PubMed: 26579441]




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                                  Page 18


                                   92. Nagahashi M, Yuza K, Hirose Y, et al. The roles of bile acids and sphingosine-1-phosphate
                                       signaling in the hepatobiliary diseases. J Lipid Res 2016;57(9):1636–1643. doi:10.1194/
Author Manuscript




                                       jlr.R069286. [PubMed: 27459945]
                                   93. Wang Y, Aoki H, Yang J, et al. The role of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 2 in bile-acid-induced
                                       cholangiocyte proliferation and cholestasis-induced liver injury in mice. Hepatology
                                       2017;65(6):2005–2018. doi:10.1002/hep.29076. [PubMed: 28120434]
                                   94. Chen T, Huang Z, Liu R, Yang J, Hylemon PB, Zhou H. Sphingosine-1 phosphate promotes
                                       intestinal epithelial cell proliferation via S1PR2. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed) 2017;22:596–608.
                                       [PubMed: 27814635]
Author Manuscript
Author Manuscript
Author Manuscript




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                    Ticho et al.                                                                                         Page 19
Author Manuscript
Author Manuscript




                                   Figure 1. Bile acid signaling in the intestine.
                                   Bile acids are synthesized in the liver by the rate-limiting enzyme CYP7A1 and secreted into
Author Manuscript




                                   the intestine. Bile acids are reabsorbed by IECs in the distal ileum via ASBT where they
                                   activate FXR, inducing the expression and secretion of FGF15/19 to inhibit hepatic bile acid
                                   synthesis. Luminal and basolateral bile acids activate TGR5 in enteroendocrine L-cells,
                                   resulting in the release of the incretin GLP-1, promoting glucose tolerance. Overproduction
                                   of bile acids can promote diarrhea by several distinct mechanisms. In the colon, bile acids
                                   disrupt barrier integrity allowing bile acids to reach the basolateral membrane of epithelial
                                   cells and induce chloride secretion, though the receptor(s) underlying this phenomenon is
                                   unknown. Interestingly, colonic FXR and TGR5 activation inhibits the secretion of chloride
                                   and other electrolytes, which may be a compensatory mechanism. Excessive bile acids also
                                   promote gut motility. Colonic bile acids activate TGR5 on ECs, promoting 5-HT release and
                                   motility. Bile acids activate neuronal TGR5, which either stimulates or inhibits motility,
                                   depending on the type of neuron and region of the GI tract. Overall, overproduction of bile
Author Manuscript




                                   acids induces colonic secretion and enhances motility, producing a diarrheal phenotype.
                                   Abbreviations: 5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine; ASBT, apical sodium-dependent bile acid
                                   transporter; BA, bile acid; CFTR, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator;
                                   CYP7A1, cytochrome P450 7A1; EC, enterochromaffin cells; FGF15/19, fibroblast growth
                                   factor 15/19; FXR, farnesoid X receptor; GI, gastrointestinal; GLP-1, glucagon-like
                                   peptide-1; IEC, intestinal epithelial cell; TGR5, Takega G protein-coupled receptor 5




                                          Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                                                              Author Manuscript                              Author Manuscript                                     Author Manuscript                              Author Manuscript


                                                                                                                                                                Table 1.

                                                                    Functional roles of bile acid receptors in the gut.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Selected
                                                                     Section                   Receptor                                      Major functions in the intestine                   Consequences of loss of function
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ticho et al.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      references
                                                                               Nuclear receptors
                                                                     2.1       Farnesoid X receptor (FXR)                 • Bile acid and cholesterol homeostasis via ileal FGF15/19    • Increased susceptibility to intestinal               3,6,7
                                                                                                                          • Suppression of mucosal immune response                      inflammation
                                                                                                                          • Maintenance of intestinal barrier                           • Bacterial overgrowth
                                                                                                                                                                                        • Increased bile acid production, bile acid diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                        • Promoting colorectal tumorigenesis

                                                                     2.2       Vitamin D receptor (VDR)                   • Detoxification                                                                                                     3,30
                                                                                                                          • Modulation of bile acid biosynthesis via FGF15/19

                                                                     2.2       Pregnane X receptor (PXR)                  • Detoxification                                                                                                     3,36


                                                                     2.2       Constitutive androstane receptor (CAR)     • Detoxification                                                                                                     3,36


                                                                               Membrane receptors
                                                                     3.1       Takeda G protein-coupled receptor (TGR5;   • Delayed gastric emptying                                    • Disturbed motility that varies between intestinal    37,54,77
                                                                               GPBAR1)                                    • Increased colonic motility                                  regions
                                                                                                                          • Anti-inflammatory response                                  • Reduced frequency of defecation
                                                                                                                          • Induction of incretin secretion and modulation of glucose   • Low stool water content
                                                                                                                          homeostasis via GLP-1                                         • Disturbed glucose homeostasis?

                                                                     3.2       Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3       • Cell proliferation                                                                                                 87
                                                                               (M3R)

                                                                     3.3       Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2         • Hepatic lipid homeostasis                                                                                          90,94
                                                                               (S1PR2)                                    • Cell proliferation?




Liver Res. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 May 04.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 20
